DATE: 20140410 1315

TITL:Azerbaijan and Iran think about developing more profound military cooperation

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. Ilham Aliyev, the President of Azerbaijan, completed his official visit to Tehran by the traditional meeting with Sayed Ali Khamenei, Supreme Leader (Rahbar) of Iran.
During the meeting Khamenei expressed his hope that the relations between Iran and Azerbaijan would continue developing successfully, noted the large experience of Azerbaijani President and sent well being wishes to Azerbaijani people.
President Aliyev pointed out that Azerbaijan and Iran supported each other at the international level and informed Rahbar that the established joint commission played important role in extension of the relations.
President of Azerbaijan pointed out at the importance of further extension of ties between both countries and peoples and noted that both countries had political willingness to develop the relations.
Following the results of his visit to Iran President Aliyev also said: “We want to successfully develop our relations in all spheres and now we have perfect opportunities for that. We carry out effective activities in the international organizations. Our activities in UN, Islamic Cooperation Organization, ECO, and Nonaligned Movement are very successful. We have very good opportunities in oil and gas sector. At the same time, we will look for the additional ways to develop more profound cooperation in military sphere. Today we also share opinion on possible cooperation in high technologies and information communication technologies sector”.
Hassan Rouhani, the President of Iran, said in his turn: “Today I would like to say to my dear Iranian people that nothing can prevent our friendly countries from developing ties at all levels. The relations between our countries contribute to the peace, stability and security in the region. We also changed our opinions on negotiations held by our countries on the legal status of the Caspian Sea and cooperation in this sphere. Both parties consider that the way to taking the final decision on this matter will not be too long. Dear President of Azerbaijan Republic stated at the negotiations that he supported the right of the Islamic Republic of Iran to use nuclear technologies for peaceful purposes.”

TITL:Crimean syndrome: Russia starts process of denunciation of treaties on USSR dissolution

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. Crimean syndrome seized the minds of Russian citizens: the judicial bodies are buried in heaps of claims demanding to denunciate treaties on USSR dissolution.
Only last week the Supreme Court of RF refused to entertain a suit of a citizen who demanded to make investigation on non-fulfillment of the decision of referendum on USSR unity held in March 1991. This week the deputies of several fractions of the RF State Duma are preparing to submit a request to the General Prosecutor’s Office on investigation of the actions taken by Mikhail Gorbachev, the first and the last USSR President, during the Soviet Union dissolution.
The deputies from ruling party “United Russia” Evgeny Fyodorov and Anton Romanov, communists Ivan Nikitchuk and Oleg Denisenko, as well as Mikhail Degtyaryov from the Liberal Democratic Party stated in the request that Gorbachev’s actions led to the country collapse while at the referendum the population of the USSR voted for preservation of the Union. Gorbachev has been incriminated in creation of USSR State Council not stipulated by the Soviet Constitution as a government body. It was USSR State Council that recognized independence of three Baltic Republics, though it was not entitled to do it, in the deputies’ opinion.
They pointed out that the criminal case was launched against Gorbachev on November 4, 1991 but it was closed the very next day. The deputies emphasize the fact that the crimes committed by Gorbachev have no time limitation.
It should be noted that in March 1991 76% of USSR citizens voted for preservation of Soviet Union. 6 of 15 Soviet Republics didn’t take part in the plebiscite: Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Georgia, Armenia and Moldova.
Azerbaijan also tries to hold Gorbachev criminally liable for slaughter of civilian population of Baku (with the signs of genocide) on January 20, 1990. All claims against Gorbachev have always been dismissed in accordance with his agreements with the western countries on his exemption from criminal liability in case of USSR dissolution. The investigation on “the Party’s gold” issue (valuables and assets plundered by USSR top Party officials) was also terminated by those reasons.

TITL:20 new sports facilities to be created for European Games in Baku

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. The first European Games to be held in Baku in June 2015 are going to improve much the sports infrastructure of Azerbaijan.
Youth & Sports Minister Azad Rahimov says that 20 new sports facilities of international level will be reconstructed or built for the Games.
"9,000 athletes and officials will be accommodated only in the sports village," Rahimov said.
The State Budget of Azerbaijan for 2014 allocated AZN 1 bn ($1.25 bn) for preparation for the European Games.

TITL:Azerbaijani Foreign Ministry reproached U.S. mediator on Karabakh settlement of incompetence

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. Almost universal recognition of the principle of territorial integrity and the fight for the integrity of Ukraine did not contribute to the settlement of the Armenian-Azerbaijani Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. Rather, the contrary. 
As a result, Deputy Foreign Minister Araz Azimov has come forward with demarche in Baku today. 
"The events in Ukraine have created tension between the two countries co-chairing the OSCE Minsk Group on the Nagorno Karabakh conflict. I don’t think that in this situation they will be able to come to a consensus within the Minsk Group and will explore ways to resolve the conflict," Azimov said. 
He also expressed his anger against U.S. co-chair of OSCE Minsk Group James Warlick in social networks. In his twitter the U.S. diplomat stated that along with Azerbaijan not Armenia but Nagorno-Karabakh is supposedly the party of Nagorno Karabakh conflict. 
"James Warlick is still not at the level that I would comment on his erroneous claims. Warlick must study in detail the documents of the Minsk Group, and then enter into a discussion," Azimov said. 
In his opinion, political bias can be observed in such statements. 
"I also think that by such statements Warlick soothes Armenia because Yerevan’s aspiration to present Karabakh as an independent state is a forming element of Armenia’s position,” Azimov emphasized.

TITL:Money issue in Azerbaijan keeps on increasing growth rate

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. The Central Bank of Azerbaijan reports that in 2014 money issue increased 1.23-fold year-on-year. Last year its rate fell 1.69-fold compared to the 2012 when they increased by 13.6%.
The CBA informs that for Jan-Feb 2014 the banks issued on average AZN 104.9 million daily versus AZN 96.107 million a year before (+9.15%).  In 2013 daily issue made AZN 108.911 million versus AZN 94.892 million in 2012.
At that, the banks withdrew AZN 95.758 million a day from circulation against AZN 88.66 million a year earlier (+8%). In 2013 withdrawal of money from circulation made AZN 105.538 million a day against AZN 89.044 million a year earlier. As a result, the banks’ daily currency issuance for January amounted to AZN 16.232 million versus AZN 13.444 million a year earlier. In 2013 the banks’ daily currency issuance amounted to AZN 3.449 million versus AZN 5.821 million in 2012.
At that, for Jan-Feb banks’ cash departments paid AZN 6.189 bn against AZN 5.67 bn a year earlier (+9.15%), and received AZN 5.649 bn against AZN 5.2 bn (+8%). As a result, money issue for Jan-Feb amounted to AZN 415.577 million versus AZN 336.526 (+23.49%).
For Jan-Feb the cash assets in circulation in Azerbaijan amounted to AZN 9.956 bn against AZN 8.857 bn a year earlier, with an increase by AZN 1.098 bn that was at the level of 264.33% of money issue volume for Jan-Feb. As a result, cash assets in circulation were at the level of 117.65% of GDP volume for Jan-Feb (AZN 8.46 bn). Money supply amounted to AZN 16.1 bn against AZN 13.5 bn a year earlier and reached 190.55% of GDP.
In 2013 banks’ cash departments paid AZN 36.643 bn that was by 14.77% more than a year earlier (AZN 34.54 bn) and received AZN 38.415 bn that was by 18.67% more than revenues for 2012 (AZN 32.411 bn). Money issue for the last year amounted to AZN 1.255 bn versus AZN 2.118 bn.
In 2013, the cash assets in circulation (M0) in Azerbaijan increased from AZN 9.256 bn up to AZN 10.458 bn or by AZN 1.202 bn that was only at the level of 95.7% of money issue volume. As a result, cash assets in circulation were at the level of 20.08% of GDP volume for the last year (AZN 52.072 bn). Last year money supply (M2) grew from AZN 13.806 bn up to AZN 16.434 bn and reached 31.6% of GDP.

TITL:Net banking lending of economy fell almost by 40% year-on-year

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. In Jan-Feb 2014 Azerbaijani banks reduced net lending of economy by 39.9% year-on-year.
The Central Bank of Azerbaijan informs that issuance of cash loans to individuals and legal entities by the banks totaled AZN 623.225 million in Jan-Feb 2014 that was by 20.59% more than a year before (AZN 516.791 million).
At the same time, repayment on the previously granted loans in Jan-Feb amounted to AZN 540.962 million that was by 42.35% more against Jan-Feb 2013 (AZN 380.011 million). As a result, in Jan-Feb net bank lending totaled AZN 82.263 million (AZN 40.085 million in January and AZN 42.178 million in February) versus AZN 136.780 million a year earlier. As of 1 March 2014 the total loan portfolio of the banks amounted to AZN 15.667 bn.
Last year issuance of cash loans to individuals and legal entities by the banks totaled AZN 3.423 bn that was by 29.75% more than in 2012 (AZN 2.626 bn).
At the same time, repayment on the previously granted loans in 2013 amounted to AZN 3.147 bn that was by 55.75% more against 2012 index (AZN 2.023 bn). As a result, in 2013 a net bank lending totaled AZN 276.531 million versus AZN 603.01 million a year earlier. As of 1 January 2014 the total loan portfolio of the banks amounted to AZN 15.422 bn.

TITL:Exchange sales of insurer Bak? S??orta’s shares start

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. Insurance company of Bak? S??orta begins exchange sale of the additional issue shares.
The Baku Stock Exchange reports that the insurer’s shares were included in the BSE non-quotation list.
"Their sales in the BSE system begin from 10 April. The placement underwriter is Chelsea Capital LLC,” the BSE informed.
The State Securities Committee registered the prospectus of Bak? S??orta ordinary shares under number AZ1005005991. In accordance with the prospectus the insurance company may increase its share capital by AZN 1.849 million through the issue of 2,434 shares with par value of AZN 760.

TITL:In 10 days insurance in Azerbaijan to speak in “human” language

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. The Azerbaijan Insurers Association (ASA) has been successful in its efforts to adapt the language of the insurance standards and agreements to the generally accepted standards of colloquial speech.
According to the ASA, that issue was discussed at the meeting of its Juridical Committee with participation of Zeka Mirzoyev, the Head of the Financial and Insurance Market Regulation Department of the Ministry of Finances, and Mahir Abdullayev, the Department Head of the State Service on Insurance Supervision of Licensing, Requests and Complaints. At the meeting the Committee considered the versions of the insurance documentation in simplified language prepared by the lawyers of the insurance companies. By general decision the Ministry of Finances will choose the best versions of the adapted documents within the next 10 days. Their authors will also participate in the special working group. It’s also planned to issue a uniform special handbook for insurers.

TITL:Rates on NBCO corporate bonds fell to 9%

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. Rates of yields on corporate bonds of non-bank credit organization (NBCO) began to fall.
The Baku Stock Exchange informs that TBC Credit LLC (NBCO with foreign capital) fixed annual rate of 9% on the next issue of its bonds.
On 7 April the State Securities Committee registered the issue prospectus of interest-bearing book-entry registered unsecured bonds of TBC Credit under number AZ2002019167. In accordance with it the organization obtained the right to raise AZN 3 million for 720-day term after issue of 3,000 coupon bonds with par value of AZN 1,000. The issue placement underwriter is ADB BROKER LLC.

TITL:Fitch: Russia 1Q capital outflows highlight a key risk

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. Fitch Ratings says that high capital outflows in the first quarter of 2014 highlight a key risk to Russia's economy and sovereign credit profile.
In agency’s view, the figure confirms the acceleration of capital outflows as a response to the Ukraine crisis and the imposition and possible escalation of sanctions. The potential impact of sanctions on Russia's economy and business environment were the main driver of our revision of the Outlook on Russia's 'BBB' sovereign rating to Negative last month.
The Central Bank of Russia (CBR) yesterday said that net outflows of private sector capital were $50.6 bn in the first quarter.
“This is the highest quarterly outflow since end-2008, and 2014 outflows are already close to last year's total of $59.7 bn. Presenting the government's new forecasts yesterday, Economy Minister Alexei Ulyukayev predicted that capital outflows would reach $100 bn in 2014, and that GDP growth could slow to around 0.5% without a relaxation of Russia's fiscal rule. We believe the Ukraine crisis is exacerbating a longer-term slowdown in the Russian economy, which was already experiencing falling investment and persistent capital outflows,” the agency informed.
Recently Fitch cut our 2014 growth forecast to slightly below 1%, with downside risks if investment continues to decline at the same rate as in the first quarter.
“Nevertheless, the current account surplus widened to USD27.6bn at end-1Q14 from USD24.3bn a year earlier, as imports dropped faster than exports following currency depreciation - consumer confidence appears to be relatively resilient, unlike business confidence. We have revised up our forecast for the current account surplus to 1.5% of GDP in 2014, similar to 2013,” the agency emphasized.
Fitch points out that the impact of capital outflows on CBR reserves is moderated by increased refinancing via foreign-currency swaps between Russian banks and the central bank. Reserves fell 4.6% to $486 bn in the first quarter. Meanwhile, non-resident holdings of Russian domestic government bonds have only fallen slightly, to 22.2% of the total at the beginning of March, from 23.9% at the start of January, according to CBR figures.
“The near-term development and final outcome of the Ukraine crisis remain highly uncertain, but the risk that it will provoke large-scale capital flight is a vulnerability of the balance of payments. Russia's sovereign rating would be sensitive to a weakening in the balance of payments that led to a substantial fall in reserves,” the agency underlined.
Link to Fitch Ratings' Report: Russia/Ukraine Sovereign Update:
http://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/reports/report_frame.cfm?rpt_id=743537

TITL:Fitch: Kazakh banks cope with new challenges and legacy problems

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. Fitch Ratings says in a newly published report that the outlook for Kazakhstan's banks remains stable, as a generally supportive operating environment offsets challenges arising from still sizable problem legacy corporate loans, rapid growth in consumer lending and tighter sector liquidity.
In Fitch's view, the economic background remains broadly supportive for bank lending, given robust GDP growth (2014F: 5.5%), slightly improving economic diversification and moderate credit penetration, with net loans amounting to 27% of GDP, or 34% of non-oil GDP, at end-2013. However, corporate loan growth has been limited (12% in 2013), as many large banks remain primarily focused on work-outs of old exposures.
Problem loan recovery remains slow, due to deep-seated problems at many distressed borrowers, legal and tax impediments to loan work outs, and sometimes weak court enforcement of creditor rights and/or inefficient collateral foreclosures. Non-performing loans (overdue by more than 90 days) were a high 33.6% for the whole sector at end-February 2014, or 18.6% for non-restructured banks. Reserve coverage of these was 112% and 121%, respectively, and the sector capital ratio was a solid 18.4%. However, restructured loans are above 10% at most large banks, and recognising significant losses on these exposures would strain capital positions.
Rapid retail lending growth (27% in 2013) has supported sector profitability, with pre-impairment profit of non-restructured banks improving to a solid 5.3% of average assets in 2013 from 3.7% for 2012, and return on average equity rising to 13.6% from 11.1%. Although household lending is still a moderate 10.3% of GDP, the cost of servicing this debt is significant, in particular for lower-income borrowers, because of high rates and rapid amortisation. In Fitch's view, the newly adopted 50% regulatory ceiling on borrowers' payment-to-income ratios (effective from April 2014) should help to limit overheating risks in the sector, as may proposed measures to limit annual consumer loan growth and increase regulatory risk weightings.
The sector's funding profile has improved considerably over recent years as a result of deleveraging, debt write-downs by restructured banks, and deposit inflows. However, banks' liquidity management is complicated by significant deposit concentrations, a shallow domestic interbank market and limited refinancing possibilities with the National Bank of Kazakhstan (NBK). Potential risks were underscored in February 2014 as the devaluation of the tenge and an information attack on some banks caused a 6% retail deposit outflow, forcing the NBK to provide additional liquidity to the market.
Fitch believes that the 19% devaluation will likely have a further moderate negative impact on corporate loan quality, although a high proportion of foreign currency exposures has already been recognised as problematic, reducing the potential for additional deterioration.
In addition, the regulator's attempts to avoid excess liquidity in the system (to prevent further pressure on the tenge) will be moderately negative for banking sector growth and profitability in 2014. However, the sector capital ratio barely changed as a result of devaluation, falling to 18.4% on 1 March from 18.6% at end-February, supported by the regulatory change of accounting for dynamic reserves; otherwise the ratio would have dropped to 18.0%.
The report, entitled 'Kazakh Banks: Legacy Problems, New Challenges', is available on: http://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/reports/report_frame.cfm?rpt_id=743915

TITL:Azerbaijani law on accreditation to be adopted within 2 months

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. The State Committee for Standardization, Metrology and Patents continues to develop technical regulation system and the patent right in Azerbaijan.
Ramiz Hasanov, the Committee Chairman, stated at the meeting of the Caspian European Club (CEIBC), that the new law on accreditation had already passed through two readings in the Parliament.
“The draft bill is expected to be adopted within 2 months”, - Hasanov said.
He also noted that the Committee is carrying out an active work in the sphere of industrial property – patents.
“The work in this direction is carried out with the corresponding structures of the UN”, - Hasanov said.
In his words, certification in Azerbaijan is carried out in accordance with the international standards. The State Committee has so far accredited 30 companies in this sphere.
“A new service has been created in the field of metrology. Owing to the new service, the most modern laboratory of South Caucasus was created jointly with the Agency for Nuclear Energy in Azerbaijan last year”, - Hasanov said.
In his words, the national standard base is planned to be modernized this year.

TITL:Over 1st quarter Azerbaijan collected nearly 24.8% of taxes forecasted for 2014

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. For Jan-Mar the Ministry of Taxes of Azerbaijan provided 24.8% of revenues envisaged by the Law on State Budget 2014 (AZN 7.102 bn).
The Taxes Ministry reports that over Jan-Mar the State Budget was transferred AZN 1.76 bn of tax revenues.
"Tax revenues in the non-oil sector for this period totaled AZN 977.249 million and AZN 785.67 million in oil sector for Jan-Mar 2013," the Ministry said.
At that, 31.5% of total revenues accounted for profit tax, 27.3% for VAT, 12.9% for income tax of individuals, 12.1% for excise taxes, and 16.2% for other taxes," the Ministry said.
The Law on State Budget stipulates receipt of AZN 4.3 bn of taxes from the non-oil sector and AZN 2.8 bn from oil sector.

TITL:Azerbaijan companies fully squeezed foreign competitors out of leading water supply contractors list

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. The situation in the Azerbaijani market of services on modernization of the water supply sector has been radically changed.
Gorkhmaz Huseynov, Chairman of Azersu OJSC, the national water supply operator, has stated today in Baku at the opening of the II Caspian International Exhibition of Water Technologies CATEC 2014 that the Company has conducted regular monitoring of their partners’ work quality since 2013.
“In the first quarter of the last year only 2 local companies were among top ten partners with high quality of work, while following the results of the recent 8 months the local companies led the top three and only two foreign companies were in the top ten”, - Huseynov said.
In his opinion, such progress can be explained by the fact that the local contractors actively study and use the latest technologies.
“Over the recent years the country has been implementing the large scale projects on improvement of water supply and sewage services. The Head of the state entrusted us to provide 24-hour water supply for every citizen of the country and we are taking all necessary measures for it. We are able to perform such mission today as we are using up-to-date technologies and creating conditions for participation of the local partners in the tenders on improvement of water supply and sewage infrastructure”, - Huseynov said.
The exhibition will last until April 12. Tomorrow Baku will also host CATEC 2014 Conference.

TITL:Azerbaijan and NATO successfully implementing project on assessment of seismic danger for Southern Energy Corridor

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. Azerbaijan and NATO successfully implement the project on assessment of seismic danger for the energy corridor Southern Caucasus – Turkey.
According to the Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences (AMEA), mission of the NATO General Staff in Brussels and Gulum Tanircan, seismologist engineer from Kandilli observatory of the Bosphorus University, visited Republican Center of Seismology Service under the AMEA to familiarize themselves with the current status of the joint projects of NATO and the Center.
During the meeting with Gurban Etirmishli, the Center General Director, the parties noted that the process of implementation of the joint project “Seismic danger for the energy corridor Southern Caucasus – Eastern Turkey and risk calculation” was going successfully.
The parties pointed out that they were very interested in further bilateral cooperation and noted the importance of such joint projects to be implemented in future.

TITL:Shah Deniz awards jackets, subsea fabrication and supply contracts for Stage 2

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. The Shah Deniz consortium has announced that the Stage 2 project continues to progress on schedule with further major construction and supply contracts recently awarded.
BP Azerbaijan reports that the contract for the fabrication of the jackets for the two planned offshore platforms, pin piles and subsea structures has been awarded to the consortium consisting of BOS Shelf LLC, Saipem Contracting Netherlands B.V.and Star Gulf FZCO. This is one of the key contracts to progress the execute phase of the giant Stage 2 project underpinning First Gas delivery in late 2018.
The scope of work of the $750 million contract includes construction of two 8-legged single batter jackets - both 110 metres in height. The jackets will weigh 13,400 and 12,300 tonnes including the flotation tanks. In addition, the scope includes the fabrication of 2300 subsea structures with a total weight of 30,000 tonnes. In particular, the subsea fabrication scope includes eight sub-sea isolation valve structures, ten flow-line termination assemblies, 80 walking anchors, 100 subsea tie-in piping spools, 100 pipeline crossing supports, 1,000 concrete mattresses and 1,000 tonnes of current transfer zone foundations.
All construction and fabrication work under this contract will be undertaken at SOCAR's Baku Deepwater Jacket Factory (BDJF) named after Heydar Aliyev, using local resources including workforce and construction yard facilities.
This award highlights the Shah Deniz partnership’s commitment to optimise the use of Azerbaijan’s local resources.  The contract is expected to mobilise about 2750 local workforce executing around 8 million man-hours during construction work, all of which will be carried out in the country.  Fabrication activities are expected to complete in 2017.
Gordon Birrell, BP’s Regional President for Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey (AGT), said: “We are pleased to have awarded such an important construction contract to the BOS Shelf, Saipem and Star Gulf consortium. The use of a world-class fabrication yard in Azerbaijan demonstrates the Shah Deniz consortium’s continued commitment to developing and leveraging local resources. We are also pleased that this contract underpins our plans to deploy subsea production technology in the Caspian Sea for the first time. The use of this technology in Azerbaijan will open up new opportunities for oil and gas developments, and allow the country to remain at the forefront of technological developments in our industry”.
The contract is awarded under a Master Agreement for the fabrication, transportation and installation of the offshore facilities - jackets, pipelines and subsea structures - scope for the Shah Deniz Stage 2 project.
In addition, the Shah Deniz consortium has also recently awarded a contract for the supply of the subsea production systems. The estimated value of this contract is $394 million and it has been awarded to FMC Technologies Inc.  The scope of work under this contract includes the supply of equipment for the first two production clusters consisting of subsea manifolds, associated controls and connection components. Activities under this contract are expected to complete in 2017.
Contract awards for the Shah Deniz Stage 2 and South Caucasus Pipeline expansion projects will continue as part of the overall progress being made across multiple areas of this major development project.

TITL:Azerbaijan’s real estate market soars by 19% year-on-year

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. The Central Bank of Azerbaijan reports that real estate market turnover for Jan-Feb grew by 19% year-on-year. Over 2013 its growth was 40.9% compared to 2012. In 2012 it grew by 24.86% against 2011.
The CBA reports that turnover of real estate market (the cash flow of notary’s offices) reached AZN 759.7 million versus AZN 638.27 million a year earlier.
The transfers to notary’s offices accounts for purchase/sale of real estate totaled AZN 358.096 million versus AZN 286.2 million a year earlier (+25.11%), and the withdrawals from these accounts made AZN 401.627 million versus AZN 325.037 million (+14.09%).
At that, the CBA reports of a decline in revenues of mediators (banks, notary’s offices and realtors) for residential real estate transactions by 33.86% for Jan-Feb. As of 1 March 2014 mediators’ earnings were AZN 43.5 million versus AZN 65.8 million a year earlier. The share of the bank’s mortgage loans in mediators’ participation reached 31.5% for Jan-Feb.
The banks issued mortgage loans for AZN 13.7 million against AZN 7.9 million a year earlier. Jan-Feb’s mortgage provided only 3.4% of payments on real estate transactions.
In 2013 turnover of the country’s real estate market increased by 40.9% against the 2012. In 2012 the index grew by 24.86% against 2011.
Turnover of real estate market (the cash flow of notary’s offices) reached AZN 3.983 bn for 2013 versus AZN 2.828 bn a year earlier.
The transfers to notary’s offices accounts for purchase/sale of real estate totaled AZN 1.752 bn in 2013 versus AZN 1.228 bn a year earlier (+40.45%), and the withdrawals from these accounts made AZN 2.231 bn versus AZN 1.599 bn (+39.5%).
At that, the CBA reported of a rise in revenues of mediators (banks, notary’s offices and realtors) for residential real estate transactions by 29.2% in 2013. As of 1 January 2014 mediators’ earnings were AZN 479.621 million versus AZN 371.307 million a year earlier. The share of the bank’s mortgage loans in mediators’ participation grew from 20.3% to 23.5%. Last year the banks issued mortgage loans for amount of AZN 112.9 million against AZN 75.2 million a year earlier. Last year mortgage provided only 5.05% of payments on real estate transactions.

TITL:Hollywood recognizes Baku cinema as most visited

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. The "whales" of American film industry have recognized the Azerbaijani network the most visited cinema. 
Park Cinema Network informs that particularly such film companies as 20th Century Fox, Paramount Pictures, and Warner Brothers Pictures Intl made such a statement in respect to movie theatre cinema ParkCinema, located at shopping center Park Bulvar in Baku. 
"It’s very nice to receive such high assessment from leaders of the world box office, especially against the background of growing number of film-theaters in Azerbaijan. In 2013 Park Cinema outperformed its competitors on the box office, and by this indicator it has become the undisputed leader in the country," Park Cinema director Namig Guliyev said. 
Recognition is certified by a special letter from companies Film Distribution (official distributor of 20th Century Fox) and InterFilm International (official distributor of Warner Bros Pictures Intl), Inter Cinema (official distributor of Paramount Pictures Intl). 
"Despite the growing competition among cinemas, Park Cinema continues to maintain its leading position in this field thanks to the professional work of theater’s team. Victory is significant for us. We don’t intend to rest on our laurels result, and will continue to delight visitors by pleasant campaign and surprises. We already have 12 screens in our network, and until the end of this year plan to launch another 11 ones. By the end of 2014 we’ll provide our guests with more than 3,500 seats," Guliyev emphasized.
Country's first network of new generation cinemas Park Cinema began its activity on 16 October 2010. The network currently consists of three movie theaters, 13 rooms and more than 2,200 seats.

